whoa - the crown of pride to the
drunkards of Ephraim whose glorious
beauty is a fading flower which is at
the head of the verdant valleys to those
who are overcome with wine behold the
Lord has a mighty and strong one like a
tempest of hail and a destroying storm
like a flood of mighty waters
overflowing who will bring them down to
the earth with his hand the crown of
pride the drunkards of Ephraim will be
trampled underfoot and the glorious
beauty is a fading flower which is at
the head of the verdant Valley like the
first fruit before the summer which an
observer sees he eats it up while it is
still in his hand in that day the Lord
of Hosts will be for a crown of glory
and a diadem of beauty to the remnant of
his people for a spirit of justice to
him who sits in judgment and for
strength to those who turn back the
battle at the gate but they also have
erred through wine and through
intoxicating drink are out of the way
the priest and the prophet have erred
through intoxicating drink they are
swallowed up by wine they are out of the
way through intoxicating drink they err
in vision they stumble in judgment for
all tables are full of vomit and filth
no place is clean whom will he teach
knowledge and who will he make to
understand the message
those just weaned from milk those just
drawn from the breasts for precept must
be upon precept precept upon precept
line upon line line upon line here a
little there a little for with
stammering lips and another tongue he
will speak to this people to whom he
said this is the rest with which you may
cause the weary to rest
and this is the refreshing yet they
would not hear but the word of the Lord
was to them precept upon precept precept
upon precept line upon line line upon
line here a little there a little that
they might go and fall backward and be
broken and snared and caught therefore
hear the word of the Lord use scornful
men who rule this people who are in
Jerusalem because you have said we have
made a covenant with death and with
Sheol
we are in agreement when the overflowing
scourge passes through it will not come
to us for we have made lies our refuge
and under falsehood we have hidden
ourselves therefore thus says the Lord
God behold I lay in Zion a stone for a
foundation a tried stone a precious
cornerstone a sure foundation whoever
believes will not act hastily also I
will make justice the measuring line and
righteousness the plummet the hail will
sweep away the refuge of lies and the
waters will overflow the hiding places
your covenant with death will be
annulled and your agreement with Sheol
will not stand when the overflowing
scourge passes through then you will be
trampled down by it as often as it goes
out it will take you for morning by
morning it will pass over and by day
and by night it will be a terror just to
understand the report
for the bed is too short to stretch out
on and the covering so narrow that one
cannot wrap himself in it for the Lord
will rise up as at Mount Gerizim he will
be angry as in the valley of Gibeon that
he may do his work his awesome work and
bring to pass his act his unusual act
now therefore do not be mockers lest
your bonds be made strong for I have
heard from the Lord God of hosts a
destruction determined even upon the
whole earth give ear and hear my voice
listen and hear my speech does the
ploughman keep plowing all day too so
does he keep turning his soil and
breaking the clods when he has leveled
its surface does he not so the black
cumin and scattered the cumin plant the
wheat in rows the barley in the
appointed place and the spelt in its
place for he instructs him in right
judgment his God teaches him for the
black cumin is not threshed with a
threshing sledge nor is a cartwheel
rolled over the cumin but the black
cumin is beaten out with a stick and the
cumin with a rod bread flour must be
ground therefore he does not Thresh it
for ever break it with his cart wheel or
crush it with his horsemen this also
comes from the Lord of hosts who is
wonderful in council and excellent in
guidance